Good morning, everyone.
Hopefully everybody had a good time
at the event last night on campus.
I'm Glenn Bullich on the
QuickTime marketing team.
And we're very,
very privileged to have this speaker
here all the way from London.
I've known Mark and Dulcy, his partner,
for quite a long time.
And if there has been a developer
in the work that we've been
doing that has consistently
over-delivered and painstakingly made
products for their customers that,
you know, just astound in every way,
I'm very, very happy to be here.
And I think that's something that
we've been doing for a long time.
[Transcript missing]
We've basically been building these
skins for the last two to three years,
really.
And we found them a really amazing way
of delivering an experience for the user.
And this is really what we're about,
is to try and create an
experience for the people who
come and look at these things.
So what I want to do today is to
really go through the steps that
we take to create these things.
And they do touch on a lot of
areas of what QuickTime can do.
So I'm going to talk a little bit
about the encoding that we do,
how we do it, the choices that we make
Designing the skin and thinking about
what we're going to include in it.
Now obviously,
The actual construction of these skins
is critical in creating that experience.
We want this to be seamless.
We want people to feel like they're
having something different out of these.
So to get them to run properly,
things like the graphic
construction of those is critical.
The other thing that we've got
to do is to think about how
The people in our audience,
what kind of technologies do they
use to connect to the internet?
How do they come to our material?
And certainly in the UK,
we still have a very
large dial-up audience.
A lot of people are still on modems.
It's changing.
Broadband is starting to come
along and really replace that.
Dial-up is really feeling
like it's on the way out,
which is great for us because we
can start to really push what we can
do with the video and the encoding.
And so on.
So again, I'm going to talk through some
of the things that we have to do
to make sure that the modem user
still has some degree of experience
compared to the best broadband.
I've mentioned a bit about performance,
and I'm going to talk as well about
how the performance relates to the...
The aesthetics of the presentation.
And then I'll have a quick look about
how we actually go about deploying
this on the web so that we can create
a destination for people as well.
Because the thing with these
media skins is they're files.
And we don't want to just
embed these in a web page.
You know, there's plenty of sites
that already do that.
And
Again,
we're trying to be different from this.
We want to create a
differentiator with this stuff.
If we have time at the end,
I'm going to talk a little bit about
how you can make these things dynamic,
how you can update the content.
Okay,
so we started doing these back in 2001,
not long after QuickTime 5.02 came
out and gave us these capabilities.
So the first one we did was
actually for Pink Floyd.
We were designing this
website that was very dynamic.
It was all Flash-based.
And again, we were wondering how could we
Include this video in this
very dynamic Flash website.
At the time, Flash didn't have any video
capabilities of its own.
And it just didn't seem
right to have this rich,
interactive environment.
- you know,
and then just popping open a new window
and embedding QuickTime movies in it.
It would have been alright,
but it didn't really allow
us to achieve our goals.
So,
We were looking at this and what we
wanted to really do was... I'm going
to keep going back and talking about
aesthetics and quality in this because
A lot of our work is around that.
And that was very much part of the brief,
the Pink Floyd.
Pink Floyd have always
been about their visuals,
about creating, again, an experience.
The skins that we made for them,
they needed to be emailed.
We wanted to send stuff
out to the mailing list,
to the people who are
interested in the band.
And in the same way,
we wanted it to be part of the website.
Again, stand out from the crowd.
We wanted it to be unique.
At the time, back in 2001,
when we did this, it was pretty special.
It was...
It did create something new for
the visitors on the website.
And certainly with Pink Floyd,
when we did that, it was,
As is usual with record companies,
the content wasn't there.
We knew kind of what to expect,
but it was...
I think with about a week till launch,
we still only had one
piece of video ready.
So the skin had to be able to talk
to a database at the back end,
and we could bring in
new content and so on.
So what I'd like to do now
is just to show you the first
Pink Floyd skin that we did.
So, excellent.
Oh, sorry.
Come to that one in a bit.
So this is what you get when
you started our player up.
Now to begin with,
this list on the right was rather sparse,
but as time's gone on,
we've managed to dig more and
more video out of an archive
and put it through this system.
So I'd just like to show you
something running in this.
We don't need no education.
We don't need no thought control.
That's kind of a summary
of where we started.
The main thing for us is also the
quality of the video presentation.
I mean, we see a lot of
QuickTime stuff on the web,
and
A lot of things get encoded around the
available bandwidth that people can use.
But here we were really interested
in pushing full motion video because
It was a new thing.
We'd just got Sorenson Video 3 come out,
and it really did change our
ballpark at the time completely.
We were now able to deliver these full
motion videos at a larger size and
encapsulate them in these players.
This is where we started.
Over the last few years,
we've done quite a few of these now.
We're probably on our
12th or 15th player now.
There's been a range
of creative executions.
Here's a player we did for Ed Harcourt.
It's a similar thing.
Here we have the 16:9 video,
which certainly in the UK is what
everyone has been moving towards.
Again, we wanted to create a presentation
to really show that off.
Okay, so you see now,
you're probably wondering why I've
got this nice wide screen area
and I have letterboxed the video.
The reason being, some of the other video
that we were using,
you know, were completely different,
it was a completely
different aspect ratio.
And so, the skin had to be programmed in
such a way so that it could...
So that we can handle both
these videos and try and again
create the best aesthetic that
we could in the presentation.
The other thing that we
were able to do with this,
which we thought was pretty cool at the
We were able to add a commentary
track to the video as well,
which is something that we see
in DVDs and that sort of thing.
But here we were actually able to
kind of interleave that into the main
video stream and to give ourselves a
commentary track so that we can actually
get Ed in to talk about the video and the
things and experiences he went through.
Could I go back to slides?
Okay, so I've talked a bit about what
the QuickTime Media Skin is,
you know,
and you've seen a couple of examples.
It started off in QuickTime 5.02 was
the first time we were really able
to create these custom window shapes.
Before that it was still
rectangular movies and
You know, they were good.
You could certainly brand those up,
but they didn't feel that different.
What we have been able to do is to
create this kind of now electronic flyer,
digital flyer,
that really the shape of the window is as
much part of its branding as the content.
Each one of these skins uses an
awful lot of what QuickTime offers
us in terms of its video handling,
the audio handling,
and being able to create interactivity
through the use of wired sprites.
And obviously,
we make full use of QuickTime's
networking and internet capabilities.
So that brings us on
to where we are today,
and the most recent
skin that we produced,
which is the
Robbie Williams-Nebworth skin,
which you may have seen.
Now the brief on this one was
very much to make an impact.
We wanted to kind of shock
people with this one.
I don't know if you're aware of
Robbie Williams as an artist,
but in the UK he's huge.
He is probably one of our biggest,
most successful artists.
His music doesn't really translate.
He's tried to kind of move out
into a bigger international market,
but he's such a typical
British cheeky chappy,
you know, and it's just,
that's what he's about.
And so we wanted to kind of try and
touch on that anarchy just a little bit.
And we wanted to communicate
the energy of his performance.
He is a very, very, very,
very energetic performer.
We wanted the skin to reflect that.
The branding of the player needed to be
integrated across the whole DVD campaign.
We wanted to have some degree
of recognition with what
they'd done in the DVD artwork,
what they'd done in the tour
program for the whole series.
Robby's tour across Europe was
seen by millions of people.
I can't remember,
I think it was close on two and a half,
three million people who witnessed this
concert as it traveled around Europe.
Also,
we wanted to include some of the videos,
the DVD extras,
and artwork from the package.
If I can go back to the demo machine.
I'll just take a moment.
I'll take you around the Nebworth
skin in a bit more detail.
So, as you can see, we have a very,
very complex shape.
This took a lot of work in Photoshop.
We didn't really have anything
that was the right shape or
[Transcript missing]
You get the idea with the video there,
but there's a lot of additional
functionality in here as well.
We wanted to carry across a lot of the
traditional interactivity that people are
used to from viewing video in QuickTime,
sorry, in QuickTime Player.
While being able to
actually play it back,
you can also scrub
through the video here,
choose any point you like.
We can completely go full screen,
and so the user can focus just on that,
clear out the rest of
their desktop clutter,
and just concentrate on this.
Also, obviously,
because some users are more capable,
we have to account for a range of skills,
so we've included some degree
of instruction for people who
were confused with what all the
various iconic controls did.
One of the things that I think
that I really think is quite cool
is in terms of handling all these
different bandwidths of video.
So we have,
obviously this is our big stream.
I'll talk about this a bit more in a bit,
but if anyone's ever tried any, you know,
done encoding,
you've probably noticed this is
quite challenging footage to encode.
We have a lot of crowd shots,
a lot of pans and zooms.
And the bandwidth that we were
used to encoding our video at
really were not cutting it.
It really needed everything to be
pushed up a notch for us to be able
to convey the quality of experience.
So if you're down at the modem level--
So what you can do here,
at the moment you see I've zoomed the
video up to fill the entire window,
which may well be what
some people want to see.
However,
that is actually its native size,
you know,
so you can actually choose to have
a higher quality at a small size,
you know,
if you're on a lower resolution screen,
that's still going to
be fairly reasonable.
But this will download as a file
much more happily over a modem.
Now, we also wanted to kind
of hit a middle ground.
So you can see here,
this is a bit larger,
and this is the stream that
people on 512 kilobit ADSL.
"It was stream in real time.
The big stream over here,
your broadband speeds are
much more impressive than ours
back at home at the moment.
That big stream,
it would still require a little bit
of waiting to get it buffering before
it'll kick off and start playing.
So this one, again,
you can zoom it out to
fill the whole player.
And thanks to the kind of video
smoothing inside Sorenson,
you still can achieve quite a
quality presentation of it."
So aside from all the video in here,
[Transcript missing]
Some of the, what they can expect
from the DVD package.
So, we've got this other QuickTime movie
that could be brought in.
I don't know if you noticed,
but when it came in,
the controls changed to allow people
to interact with this content instead.
So you can step through and see some
previews from the artwork there.
We have some of the DVD extras.
really exciting.
And we wanted to give
people a proper kind of,
some liner notes really from the
DVD so that they knew what to
expect from the package overall.
Now this was,
This is quite a big deal for EMI who
we did this for because it gave
them a way of getting this out
into all sorts of people's hands.
We could promote it
through Robbie's website,
we could email it to the mailing list.
It really gave us a lot of flexibility.
What I'm going to do now is
really sort of get into the
nitty-gritty about how we made this.
The steps involved in
actually producing the video,
the interactive part of the QuickTime,
and the eventual deployments on the web.
So if we can go back to slides.
So the first step of the process
was trying to gather the assets.
Now this is always a challenging process,
particularly when record companies,
artists, management,
there's a whole host of people
that have to clear this stuff,
and more often than not we find
that we end up with really the raw
deal at the end of the process.
Everyone's taken their stuff.
We see all this media produced and we
can't work out where these assets have
come from because we never saw them.
But with Robbie, we were quite lucky.
Robbie's management company were
editing the video themselves,
and so they were actually able
to provide us all the footage
on DVD as QuickTime files.
So that gave us a really
good head start with this,
and one that we're not used to seeing.
Normally, we're kind of -- we're
not a large company,
Bulycz, you know.
We -- but -- so the idea of us
being able to go out and afford,
you know, DigiB to Dex,
That sort of thing to
allow us compatibility with
this is really beyond us.
We normally tend to...
Expect things to be delivered on miniDV.
We even get stuff delivered
to us in MPEG-2 on DVD,
which comes with its own set of problems.
There's a lot of transcoding
issues from MPEG-2,
audio tracks that seem to just disappear.
But in this case,
we were pretty well sorted.
The artwork that we were given in
this case as well was pretty awesome.
We were given everything that they had.
We were given the graphics
that they used to develop,
to print up all the backdrops on stage.
We had all the artwork from
the DVD and the tour program,
all in high res.
So we pretty much could do
whatever we liked with this.
So we started to think about how
we could actually pull this artwork
apart and build a player from it.
So the first thing I want to
talk about here is the design,
really.
Because, I mean, we're a strange lot.
You know, it's like we're just as much
into the design as we are into
the development of these things.
And like I said,
I keep going back to talking
about the aesthetics of this.
And this is very apparent in this player.
Now, while it's a very
elaborate player design,
the thing that was really key to us to
get good playback was to actually make
the underlying player incredibly simple.
We found through our own bitter
experience that the moment you start to
try and get too clever with the way that
you're handling media in these things,
these things tend to really slow down.
But with a bit of thought
at the design stage,
you can really sort this out.
We were, and obviously we wanted to
include a lot of interactivity,
so this was already forcing us
down a particular path with this.
I've already spoken a little bit about
the context-sensitive navigation.
And again, I'm
A lot of the time we don't know what
is actually going to end up in this.
So there had to be levels of
code written inside QuickTime to
enable that functionality.
Now the window mask shape
caused us no end of problems.
We knew we wanted to create this
very elaborate baroque feel to
the way the shape of the player.
And so we thought, well, yeah,
we'll just take the artwork, you know,
we'll stick it through
levels in Photoshop,
bit threshold, and it'll be fine.
And oh, no, it wasn't.
It was horrible.
I mean, the first time we tried that and
started to play video back in it,
everything was being jerky.
You tried to pick the player up
and move it around the screen.
It would be jumpy.
It just wasn't very pleasant.
So, um,
We had to kind of go back to scratch
and literally draw that shape by hand,
concentrating on getting as many pixels
in a horizontal line as we could,
because that really helped QuickTime.
That meant the drawing routines
on both Mac and Windows could
really deal with it.
That's the shape we ended up with.
So as you can see, it's pretty clean.
I mean,
there aren't many stray pixels in there.
We've painted them all out.
So that gave us our shape.
Inside that,
we needed to lay in a background,
something that we could build on top of.
So what you're seeing there is the actual
background JPEG from the QuickTime skin.
We use a range of image file
formats to encapsulate these things.
We use JPEGs where we have
large complex backgrounds,
or photographic backgrounds.
We still use GIFs occasionally where
we want something to be really small.
And more and more,
we're now getting into using
PNGs and that sort of thing,
because they have certain
advantages themselves.
Here you can see what would happen
if we laid the video into the design.
Which wasn't really doing what we wanted.
So we figured, well,
maybe we can take these extra bits and we
can float it over the top of the video.
With alpha channels and so forth,
but again, we lost all our performance.
The video would not play back smoothly at
25 frames a second with those in place.
So we kind of thought about this,
and we actually went back to a
technique that we used to use years
ago when doing CD-ROMs in Director.
And we actually laid this
framework in place into the video.
We produced a mask,
and as we were encoding it in Cleaner,
we were applying this mask to
every single piece of video.
So that when it came back
to be displayed by the user,
it would seem seamless.
And we tried to make sure that
whatever state the player was in,
that that edging would be in place.
So that you never saw the actual
rectangle that held the QuickTime movie.
So again, talking about the aesthetics,
one of the things that we find
really frustrating about QuickTime is
the fact that it wants to put
this funny white rectangle with
a little QuickTime loading icon.
And we find that quite jarring.
What we did here is to create an overlay,
an image that we could bring back
to the front whenever a video stream
started playing that would cover
up what we figured was a bit of a,
something that didn't really
fit with the overall feeling
that we were trying to create.
So now we start looking at laying
in the interactive elements.
Now again, this was critical.
One thing that we -- certainly I did it.
The first time I tried
to create one of these,
this is exactly what I did.
I would create a sprite track.
I'd try and lay it in
over the complete design,
knocking out the background by setting
it to transparent in live stage.
But again, that just does not work.
Every element needs to be
-- it needs to be separate.
It needs to be its own thing.
So what you start to do is to
build up a whole range of tracks
for each interactive element.
So for instance, the progress bar here,
the transport control here,
the bandwidth control,
the main navigation,
which is embedded as a flash track,
and the kind of window control.
rolls.
They're all separate elements.
They've all been kept small,
self-contained,
so that we can have a whole range of
different functionality around the
player without it impacting performance.
So, now the flash track at the top,
that gave us some very
interesting issues,
because the...
Again, just like the video,
we couldn't stick any graphics over
the top of that track because it
would kill performance throughout.
So using the track masking
features of Photoshop,
we added a mask for that
top bit of navigation.
would define the area that
the Flash movie would occupy.
So this enabled us to lay
the Flash track on top,
but to create the visual
appearance of a track that was
behind the rest of the design.
Okay, so once we've got all
those components together,
they all add up and
create the impression of
[Transcript missing]
So those are kind of the design
considerations we set out with,
which is basically based on our
experience of doing these in the past.
So we'd already equipped ourselves
with these few bits of knowledge
about how QuickTime would respond
when laying these elements together.
Yeah.
So now I'm going to talk about the video.
In this instance,
we didn't need to capture anything.
We already had been given files.
And I'm sure different people here
will have different technologies
that they use to capture their video
and bring it into their workflow.
For us in this instance,
it had already been done.
So we could move straight
into the encoding phase.
So, to do this,
we're still using Cleaner.
I know Cleaner seems to have
kind of gone very quiet,
and we find that a shame because that
was historically our favorite tool.
I've been using that right back
from when it was a piece of
shareware called Movie Cleaner,
and that really had been my main tool
for processing and sorting out video.
Where Clean is going,
I have no idea at the moment.
And we're certainly going to have--
So, yeah, we'll be looking at other
tools to help us do this.
The trouble is, is that with Cleaner,
it...
Cleaner was special in as much that it
enabled us to do everything in one go.
The cropping the video so that we could
get rid of all the extraneous sort of
video signals and stuff from our source.
It enabled us to do all
the color correction and,
you know, the color
set up a batch that would just run
through all these files in one go.
Like I was saying before,
it was horrible.
When we first got the video in and
we tried our first test encodes
at the bandwidths that we were
used to encoding this material at,
it was a disaster.
We just thought,
how can we ever send this out?
Again, the aesthetics of the
presentation just wasn't there.
So we kind of moved everything up.
We normally kind of overall
used to use kind of 100 kilobit,
300 and 600 to carry the video.
In this instance,
that just wasn't going to be possible.
So we moved all the video
bandwidth up a notch,
up to one megabit at the top end.
And then we found that all of a sudden,
you know,
it was a lot of trial and error.
But eventually we found a point
that we were happy with the file
sizes compared to the quality
and the motion we were getting.
So as I said,
it's all encoded in Sorenson 3.
And Robbie's one is...
One of the first ones that we
started to use AAC audio in,
simply because the quality of that
presentation is so much better.
You can probably hear the difference
between the Pink Floyd one where
that's actually an MP3 soundtrack.
It's all right,
but the moment you start using
AAC at the higher bandwidths,
it really starts to shine.
So these are some of the
things we considered as we
were encoding this thing.
Now one of the things that we've always
taken as a choice is I want to...
Be true to the original timing,
the temporal quality.
I want to try and carry through
that 25 frames a second of
the source material because
It's music.
Music is about rhythm.
It's called full motion
video for a reason.
And we found that the moment you
started to drop the frame rate down,
you would either start to have all sorts
of horrible sort of half-frame problems,
and the rhythm of the
performance would be lost.
So we chose to go for a temporal
quality over spatial quality.
I wouldn't mind seeing a bit of
blocking or artefacting in these
streams if it meant that I could
keep this thing running at 25 frames
a second and to carry through the...
The Vibrancy of the Original Performance.
We also use progressive
downloads rather than streams,
and we do this for a
very particular reason.
It allows users on all sorts
of connections to access this.
If we try and start to stream one
megabit movies down to the user,
we're going to be immediately leaving
out a whole segment of our audience.
Whereas with a progressive download,
they can just wait.
If they really want to watch the
high-quality version on dial-up,
they can just wait for it.
It also means that we can do
additional functionality like
the scrub control on the video,
so that people can randomly access any
point of that file once it's downloaded.
As I already mentioned,
the style of footage that we
had for this gig was such that
it's an encoding nightmare.
You've got kind of crowds jumping around,
you've got these long shots
showing 50,000 people.
It's kind of the worst possible
situation for encoding.
And like I've already said as well,
we needed to burn those elements,
burn the edge of the frame
design into the video,
which was all done as
we encoded the video.
So I guess the point I'm trying
to make there is that the design
considerations up front were really
important for us because we had to
work out how to put all these different
things in place as we were doing it.
So, here I can give you some of
the settings that we used.
So the Pink Floyd material and
the Pink Floyd player and the
Ed Harcourt player that I showed you
are very much that middle column.
So you can see the jump that we had to
take with Nebworth to achieve what we
felt was a similar level of aesthetics
to the look and feel of the video.
Now, again, a lot of these numbers came
out through trial and error.
You know, I sit there with clean air,
just batching out different
qualities over and over again.
And we found that there were
certain sweet points in that
where the quality of the video and
everything would just come together.
So that's that.
And you can see that we,
as far as the audio goes,
that's pretty simple.
We've found a set of values
there that we're quite happy
with over a whole range of
Different things that we're given.
And obviously, at those bandwidths,
AAC audio just,
it blows MP3 out of the water.
So now we get into the...
So what we have now,
we have a folder full of encoded video.
We have an idea of the design
that we are going to use to...
[Transcript missing]
As the author,
an amazing amount of control.
The language inside
Livestage is called QScript.
It's an odd language.
It's not perhaps what
you'd be used to in,
you know, compared to today's modern
scripting languages.
But you can still get the results if
you're prepared to kind of work on it.
Now,
So again,
every interactive element was laid
up into a track so that we could
"Get the performance that we
wanted." So we had to break that
design down into the little pieces.
So that we can actually achieve
the interactivity without it
interfering with the video itself.
So then,
I want to talk a little bit
about where we put all this code.
Because you get into these
authoring environments.
And it seems like you can stick
stuff just about anywhere,
but in this instance,
we normally now try and concentrate all
our code into just one of these elements.
In this case particularly,
it's actually all held
in the progress bar,
because that is where I need to
write code to manage the playback
of this video as it streams down.
I want that progress bar to be
the thing that is dynamically
updating as the video downloads.
So that's where most of it's kept.
All the other interactive elements
tend to send events back to that
progress bar to trigger certain
events and that sort of thing.
It also means that I have one
point inside the entire movie
that I can go and see all my code.
So, oh,
and the other place that tends to end up
with a lot of code is the flash track.
The way that a flash file or a Swift file
will work in QuickTime requires
you to attach code to buttons.
You have to kind of pass things
backwards and forwards to the flash.
You can't, I mean this is something
that really pains me,
is the ability that,
or not having the ability
to call a function.
So in Flash 5, you can define your own
custom functions anywhere,
any movie clip inside the tool.
But...
QuickTime doesn't work in that way.
I have to expose variables at
the right at the root of the
movie and put data in those.
And literally I have to have
little buttons off screen so
that once I've populated these
variables with the right data,
I can click that button from
the script and the appropriate
actions can take place.
The most complex code in this is
all about playback management.
When you normally sort
of see a QuickTime movie,
you have a route timeline,
and that's what you're controlling.
When you play and stop that, it's...
It's all happening at that bottom level.
So we actually have
quite a multitude of...
A couple of hundred lines of code in this
thing just for managing the playback.
If the user's network stalls, if...
For whatever reason, the video stops.
I want the player to be able to
recognize that and react accordingly
so that when the data is back in place,
it can just pick up and carry on through.
So I've now got a folder
full of encoded video.
I've got a design,
and I've authored that.
I've put the code in the right places,
and that's behaving itself now.
We now get onto the step of
actually publishing this thing.
We have this QuickTime movie.
It's doing its thing,
but I want to actually
move it to the web.
The main reason I wanted to have it
on the web is to create a destination.
You can't just -- well, you can.
You can obviously give somebody
a URL that goes straight
to the QuickTime movie.
But then you're not going to have any of
the -- the -- the -- the -- the -- the
The wonderful sort of shape
to the window is just going to
be embedded there in the page,
and it's not the most
aesthetic experiences.
So we actually have to try and
launch the movie from the web page.
And we do that by embedding a second tiny
little QuickTime movie that handles that.
The other thing that we want
to do from the web page is
to give people the ability to
download this thing and keep it.
It's one of the great powers of these.
They are like digital flyers.
And it's all well and good for you
coming to the page and seeing it,
but not everyone has QuickTime Pro.
Users with QuickTime Pro obviously
can save this thing off their
drive and keep it for later.
So we wanted to give
people an easy download,
so they can just keep this.
So if I can go back to the
So we actually have a link
to this from our website.
So you'll see it automatically
starts launching the movie,
and there we go.
So we can kind of create that whole
seamless experience in one step.
That little embedded QuickTime movie
in the page is the secret to
moving it into QuickTime Player and
kicking the whole thing off.
And now we're here.
Obviously, we can interact with the skin.
I can go back and I can
choose to launch it again.
Indeed, I can click a link and take
it home to keep it for later.
So that's kind of pretty
much the process we,
an outline of the process that we
went through to create this thing.
It's, you know,
it does touch on just about every
element that QuickTime has to offer.
I guess apart from VR, you know,
but we couldn't really
see a good use for that.
So that is pretty much it
in terms of Neverworth.
Neverworth was-- we always
knew what the content would be.
It was very much a static target.
The clips that were authorized for
us to redistribute were very clear.
And so we could build that
player in such a way so that--
The content was just there.
We didn't need to hook
anything up to the web.
What I'd like to show you
now is another skin that we
actually did for Robbie Williams,
an earlier one, where we had really no
idea about the content.
So again, a similar thing, you know,
the video's there.
We have a range of video
available to browse.
You can see that
As I select things,
it gives you descriptions about
what those pieces of video are.
We even have this top-level menu where
we can actually choose to see what area
of content we're interested in seeing.
And now all of this is dynamic.
The player really is just a completely
empty shell that needs to connect
to an XML file on the server before
it knows what it's going to do.
So this gives us the ability to create
these players as empty shells and then
choose what content we're going to play
into it and how the player can be updated
over time as new video becomes available.
I guess really that's about it.
I mean, I guess in conclusion I can say,
I mean,
this is all pretty exciting to us.
The ability to create these
experiences for people and
Yeah, you know, it's cool, you know?
It's something different.
It's something new.
There's a lot of power to these players.
And we really feel like we're just
starting to scratch the surface of this.
And we're very interested to see
how QuickTime is evolving and the
things that we can do in future.
Okay, so...